{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf290
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Dave Williams}}\margl1133\margr1133\margb1133\margt1133\vieww8120\viewh17040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Single XB reviewer comments, Biophysical Journal\
\pard\pardeftab720\li431\fi-431\ri0\sb240\sa119\ql\qnatural

\b\fs32 \cf0 Reviewer 1
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This is theoretical paper in which Williams et al. describe the behaviour of 2 myosin crossbridge models able to develop axial as well as radial forces as found experimentally. The paper is interesting and well suited for the Biophysical Journal, however I do have some comments and criticism on it.\
In general, there are some parts of the paper that require clarification.\
\
Geometry of the models in fig 1. \
\
It is needed to show the z line or M line position 
\b [DAVE: This is done]
\b0 . From part A one can deduce that z line is on the right of the figures, however if this is the case it is not clear how the power stroke can be simulated by an increase of the angle \\delta as described on page 2. 
\b [DAVE: This looks like we need a rewrite, now done]
\b0 \
It would be also useful to put on the same figure how the crossbridge geometry changes between pre and post power stroke states under isometric conditions. 
\b [DAVE: Might get cluttered, but is possible, also, another image was produced to combat this. Take a looks at Figure S2]
\b0 \
\
Correction factor 
\i cf
\i0  (page3) that is used to set ssLS so that at resting lattice spacing the post power stroke bridges generate no radial force. It is not clear to me what are the bases for introducing such a (great) correction factor and what are the consequence of its exclusion.  
\b [DAVE: The correction factor is included to convert between the spacing the model is dealing with and the spacing most are used to seeing, to convert from the lattice spacing as measured from the surface of one filament to the surface of another to lattice spacing as measured from one filament's center of mass to another filament's center of mass. Essentially, the correction factor is accounting for the radii of the thick and thin filaments. ]
\b0 \
In addition, to my understanding at normal lattice spacing the intact muscle fibre does generate radial compressive force. Only in a compressed lattice compressive radial forces may be reduced and possibly annulled (Bagni et al. Biophysical J. 1994) 
\b [DAVE: This is a very good point, I should have noted that this is only for cross-bridges at the entirely unstrained axial offset at the rest lattice spacing and will not hold true as axial offset changes.]
\b0 \
\
I would like to see a figure showing, for a definite off set , how radial force changes with lattice spacing. This seems to me interesting as radial spacing changes (due to radial force) upon intact fibre force development have been measured and it has been shown that such spacing changes are dependent on resting lattice spacing, altered by using external solutions with different tonicity\
(Bagni et al. Biophysical J. 1994). 
\b [DAVE: Okay, good idea! This was previous trackable from a larger figure 4 that included force contours of axial and radial forces. This graphic is now included as Figure S3 and can be rolled back into figure 4 if desired.]
\b0 \
\
Abstract. Last sentence: 
\i Axial and radial forces increases as the lattice spacing is off set from myosin head resting position.
\i0  This is unclear. As the spacing changes (increase or decrease) axial force can increase or decrease but remains positive whereas radial forces changes direction from compressive to espansive force ( negative or positive). So it is better to describe separately the behaviour of the two forces and I would prefer the use compressive or expansive in place of negative or positive. 
\b [DAVE: I changed to this phrasing for the radial forces and broke the badly structured sentence into two. This is still tacitly talking about the effects at a fixed axial offset to keep the abstract complexity at a useful level.] 
\b0 In addition, saying 
\i offsetting the position
\i0 , does not say in what direction the myosin head has changed position therefore we can\'92t say whether the axial force increases or decreases. This is because in intact fibres an optimal spacing exists at which the axial force is maximized.  
\b [DAVE: The force we are measuring here is per-bound, force generating cross-bridge, so it is difficult to translate this directly to the force of an intact fiber as it ignores the effects the kinetics have on how frequently each cross-bridge can generate force.]
\b0 \
\
(page 1. middle para) .Some of previous one spring models have considered radial force. See for example AF Huxley (Reflections on Muscle, Princeton University Press, page62). This a simple model , which however do consider radial force. Radial force developed is very likely too small. This is because of the relatively long S2 element which makes the angle between S2 and myosin rod very small with a very small radial force component. 
\b [DAVE: The power stroke contains a rotation about the converter domain and subsequent shift in the position of the LCD. This offsets the S2/LCD linking position in the radial direction, in addition to pulling on the S2 domain. The radial movement of the S2/LCD link, in the model we propose, has more to do with the creation of radial forces than does tension on the S2 domain along its axis. This decouples, to a certain extent, the creation of radial force from the angle at which the S2 domain intersects the thick filament.] 
\b0 \
\
How is it the power stroke simulated in the 2 spring model? From fig 1 it seems a torsion of the spring between S2 and the myosin backbone. It is not clear how this torsion could reproduce the power stroke. 
\b [DAVE: This is a failure to communicate clearly on my part, a better explanation of how the 2sXB replicates the 4sXB is now included under Spring Geometries in the Models section. Figure S2 has also been created to address this issue. Please inform me if it continues to be at all unclear.]
\b0 \
\
Page 7 Axial offset etc.. parts of this paragraph are unclear to me. What is the point of inflection?. I believe an effort should be made to make this paragraph easier to follow.\
It would be important to show how the axial force dependence from spacing, predicted by the models, affects the sarcomere length-tension relationship.\
\
Page 8 
\i Forces at a given axial offset increases with lattice spacing
\i0  . Again it would be much clearer if the effects on radial and axial force were considered separately for the reasons I described above. For example, from the second sentence a reader can deduce that crossbridges generate negative force .This dos not make sense if the force is axial but not if the force is radial (I presume negative means expansive?).\
\
Page 8 middle para. Fig 4E-H and fig 4,E,G. These parts of fig 4 do not seem to exist. Fig4 is limited to A,B,C,D. 
\b [DAVE: This is an accidental remainder from the time that figure four included contour plots of axial and radial forces.  I now question whether we should axe this paragraph entirely, or re-institute the force contour plots (maybe axing the force vector plots?) so that the point can be bette illustrated. That said, I don't think that this is a particularly clear or important point.]
\b0 \
\
Fig 1 please add the position of M line or z line on the fig . 
\b [DAVE: Done!]
\b0 \
\
Fig 3 what is the binding site offset? Is it equal to axial offset? 
\b [DAVE: It is the same thing, this is now consistent across the figures.]
\b0 \
\
Figure1 legend: Last sentence.. i
\i t is \\gamma that replicates
\i0 ..... from fig b1 I would have said that it is \\delta that replicates .... 
\b [DAVE: Good catch! Fixed and searched for any other delta/gamma mix ups.]
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 \
\page \pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 Reviewer 2
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The present manuscript ("Lattice spacing and multi-dimensional forces in the cross-bridge") by Williams, Regnier and Daniel, describes a cross-bridge model claimed to go beyond earlier models by using multiple springs to replicate myosin's force-generating power-stroke and account for the effects of lattice spacing and radial force. The paper is reasonably well written, it addresses a relevant biological question and the analysis seems correct. However, whereas the model also introduces some useful novel concepts with different springs corresponding to mechanically relevant portions of the myosin structure, I have two major problems with the paper:\
\
1. I regard it as quite disturbing that the earlier theoretical studies by Schoenberg (Biophys J, 1980) are not cited. In spite of the fact that these studies, necessarily, take their starting point in different assumptions about the structure of the myosin head and the cross-bridge the general conclusions seem rather similar to those reached here. It is very surprising that these similarities are not even mentioned. Moreover, whereas the present model deals with force-generation in two dimensions the Schoenberg papers actually go further by taking into account three-dimensional aspects with the possibility of different azimuthal locations of myosin binding sites on actin.  In view of these comments, I doubt that the paper advances the field to an extent that publication in the Biophysical Journal is justified. 
\b [DAVE: Schoenberg's work was referenced, but not extensively discussed. The Schoenberg models are now mentioned more explicitly in the introduction. Additionally, the differences, similarities, and goals of both models are now addressed in a new paragraph in the Spring Configurations area of the Models section.]
\b0 \
\
2. The second major problem with the paper is that the present level of development only seems to allow very limited comparison of model predictions to experimental data. This makes it virtually impossible to judge the full validity and explanatory power of the model. For instance, does the model quantitatively predict changes in inter-filament spacing upon active force-development at different initial filament spacings? Furthermore, are the predictions compatible with the experimentally observed constancy of maximum shortening velocity over a range of sarcomere lengths (Edman, 1979)? Before the model formulation allows answers to questions like these, e.g. by "embedding multi-spring cross-bridges in a multi-filament model" (p. 10, last paragraph) the paper does not seem sufficiently well developed for publication in Biophysical Journal. 
\b [DAVE: These are good questions but are somewhat removed from what we are addressing with this work. The strength of the models presented here is that they offer an explicit mathematical hypothesis as to what is driving the effects of changes in lattice spacing and the creation of radial forces. Very little prior work addresses these issues in a mathematical fashion and no work puts them into context with their kinetics as a complete cross-bridge capable of undergoing a power stroke to generate force.]
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li431\fi-431\ri0\sb240\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 \
\page \pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 Reviewer 3
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Radial component of cross-bridge force is indeed not properly accounted for by current muscle models. An attempt of the authors of the MS to build a model that fills the gap would be very welcomed if the treatment of mechanical properties of myosin molecules was correct. However the model suggested does not agree with what is known about structure and mechanical properties of myosin molecule. Therefore the validity of the results and of conclusions derived from them is\ul  more than doubtful\ulnone .\
\
In the 4sXB model (Fig. 1D) the S2 region of myosin is represented by a torsional spring between myosin S2 and rod and a linear spring that describes stretch of S2 itself. This approach seems to be reasonable although a more physically plausible description of mechanics of the S2-rod fragment of myosin was suggested more than 20 years ago (Stewart M, McLachlan AD, Calladine CR.\
Proc R Soc Lond B. 1987 229:381-413).\
\
The S1 region is represented by a torsional spring between S2 and the LCD domain of S1 and a linear spring that represents LCD (Fig. 1D). In practice the torsional stiffness of the S1-S2 junction is very low so that it behaves as a free ball joint. This is evident from electron microscopy images of myosin molecules where S1 have a broad range of angles with respect to S2 (Walker M, Knight P, Trinick J. J Mol Biol. 1985 184:535-42) and from 2D crystal structure of HMM fragment of myosin that consists of two S1s connected to S2 (Wendt T, Taylor D, Trybus KM, Taylor K. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2001. 98:4361-6). Also fast, almost free rotational diffusion of detached myosin heads was revealed using spin labels attached to S1 (Thomas DD, Ishiwata S, Seidel JC, Gergely J. Biophys J. 1980 32:873-89). The authors of the MS misunderstood scheme shown in Fig. 5 of Ref. 32 (more relevant reference to the tilting lever arm model is: Holmes KC. Curr Biol. 1997. 7:R112-8). The angle between LCD and the filament axis is determined by rotation of LCD with respect to the catalytic domain of S1 that is stereo-specifically bound to actin, not by stiffness of the S1-S2 junction. Torsional stiffness of the LCD-catalytic domain junction was demonstrated by time-resolved x-ray diffraction measurement of LCD movement in response to fast length perturbations (Dobbie et al. Nature 1998. 396:383-7). Inclusion of a linear spring into LCD also is not compatible with its secondary structure that contains a long alpha-helix that is very stiff. The only possible degree of freedom within S1 is torsion of LCD with respect to the catalytic domain with two different values for rest angle which correspond to the pre- and post-force-generating states. The S1-S2 junction should be considered as a free ball joint.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 DAVE: (This paragraph is a really good example of the problem of communicating the model. I am aware of these points and took them into account when designing the 4sXB, it is just that the places I put the torsional springs is functionally equivalent to the suggesting here while being mathematically simpler. The options to resolve this are to either do the mathematically more difficult version and call it good or try to better explain how the geometry I used is accomplishing what is suggested here.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Minor comments\
Page 3, papa 2: d10 spacing is the distance between the 10 planes in the  hexagonal filament lattice, not "from the center of one thick filament to the center of another". These two values differ by a factor of sqrt(3)/2, or ~0.87. The correction factor cf is the sum of the radius of a thick filament, ~7.5 nm, plus the distance from the center of the thin filament to the LCD-catalytic domain junction of S1 bound to actin, ~6.9 nm (Holmes et al., Philos Trans R SocLond B Biol Sci. 2004. 359:1819-28). The sum is more than twice higher than cf=6.9 nm used in the MS.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa119\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Dave: (Again, I have this guy down. This is how I calculated the spacings, it is apparently just easy to misunderstand.)
\b0 \
\
Page 3, para 3: "The energy liberated by the hydrolysis of Pi..." Should be changed for "...the hydrolysis of ATP ...".\

\b Dave: (Dang! I caught that in the table caption, but missed it in the main text! Mea culpa, it is corrected.)
\b0 \
\
Page 9, para 3: Ref. 26 is not relevant for the discussion of the effect of lattice spacing on force generation as the experiments described in Ref. 26 have been performed with relaxed cardiac muscles where myosin cross-bridges did not produce any active force.\
}